---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Codes of Conduct and Browser Extensions"
---

## Code of Conduct Activity and a reflection on browser extensions
<!--more-->

# Code of Conduct Activity

### Go Project

After reading the [Go Community Code of Conduct](https://go.dev/conduct), its clear that there are plenty of benefits for having such a document for a project. 

For starters, its good to lay out the rules and terms of the project upfront. That way everyone is aware of the standards and expectations when joining. Its also good to have a code of conduct written **BEFORE** a problem arises as opposed to during or after. That way issues are more clearly defined and easier to deal with amongst group members if they ever actually occur. 

Another code of conduct document we read was the one for the Contributor Covenant website. Two differences between this one and the Go project was that **the Go project's code of conduct was more thorough than the one for the Contributor Covenant.** The Go project focused significantly more on the expectations an standards for the **individual contributors**, while the other was more broad and outlined standards for the project as a whole. Another difference was the Go project was more concious of **international users**, while the Contributor Covenant doesn't even address this. 

### Eclipse 

We were also asked to find the [code of conduct for Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php). 

After reading it, its very clear that Eclipse's code of conduct differs greatly in structure when compared to the Go project. The reason for this is because Eclipse delegates the specific rules and standards to be determined and enforced by Eclipse Staff, project committers, and leaders, whereas Go does not do so as freely.

### Sugar Labs

For this part we were asked to read over the [code of conduct for the Sugar Labs project](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct). When compared to the code of conduct for the Go project, it is significanly more simple in its approach and presentation. With the Sugar Labs project being more geared towards children, it is understandable as to why they chose this approach. According to the Code of Conduct page, it is also based of off the [Ubuntu Code of Conduct](https://ubuntu.com/community/code-of-conduct).

### OBS

For part 3, I decided to use the [code of conduct](https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio/blob/master/COC.rst) for [OBS](https://obsproject.com/).

After reading it over, I would say that it is most similar/comparable to that of the Contributor Covenant. It is certainly more standard and not as extensive or specific as that of Go or Sugar Labs. Apparantly [OBS's code of conduct wasn't actually formalized until August of 2021](https://twitter.com/obsproject/status/1422269729247571969). With how recent this is, this could explain why it lacks the extensiveness of other codes of conduct.

# Browser Extensions

After doing the activity in class, it is safe to say that this was a fun experience. The example was amusing and it was a great way to be introduced to browser extension development in FireFox.

I have developed browser extensions for Google Chrome in the past, so it was interesting seeing the similarities and differences between developing extensions for the two platforms. Aside from some minor syntax and variable differences, development for both is nearly identical.

It was also nice meeting my team member Philip! Unfortunately our third team member wasn't present, but we were still able to make due.

We decided to work on a browser extension that manipulates the formatting of [YouTube](https://youtube.com). We had brainstormed some potential ideas and I am excited to see what we can pull off!