---
layout: post
title: Week 1: Hello!
---


## Open Source
### First Impressions
When I hear the term "open source", I think of collaborative projects that anyone from around the world can contribute to. From what I've seen in the past, it seems as though people don't contribute soley for profit or personal gain, but rather with the intent of bettering a project they believe in. After the first week of class I have found this to be somewhat true, but I also learned the true definition of open source and its use in the professional landscape of software development.

### Open Source vs. Closed Source
Some advantages of open source over closed source is that anyone can publish and contribute to a project. This means anyone with the knowhow and necessary skillset can make contributions whenever they please, and the original developers of the project dont necessarily have to seek out new talent. These outside contributers can also help contribute new and interesting ideas that the original developers wouldn't have even originally considered.

### Problems with Open Souce
Some potential problems with open source include issues with ownership in terms of license and copyright with respect to ones contributions. Also, because anyone can potentially contribute to a project, it can be difficult to regulate the quality of said submissions. 

### Why This Class?
I decided to register for a class about open source software development because I wanted to gain open source software development experience firsthand in an academic setting, as well as meet and learn from my fellow peers that share a similar interest in this topic. Despite it only being the first week, I have already met so many interessting and passionate developers in my class. This is only the begining and I'm excited to see what this semester has in store!

## Projects
Four open source projects that I regularly used or has influenced me in some way in the past are OBS, VLC, Blender, and Wikipedia. 

* [OBS (Open Broadcaster Software)](https://obsproject.com/) is an open source digital video streaming/recording program. I have used it in the past for livestreaming video and have even developed plugins that are compatible with it.

* [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/) is an open source cross platfrom media player. I have used it in the past to play dvds on my personal computer.

* [Blender](https://www.blender.org/) is an open-source 3D computer graphics software program. I have used it in the past to  create digital art and I am interested in using my coding skillset to develop plugins for it.

* [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/) is an open source online encyclopedia and I have used it in the past for looking up trivial information. I lookforward to becoming an active contributor to the various articles on this site.
