---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Impact of Open Source on Communities"
---

A reflection on in-class open source discussions.
<!--more-->




This week in class we had a discussion about the impact of open source projects on communities and the world around us. This discussion was based partially on both the videos we were asked to watch last week in place of last Thursday's class and guest speaker Christoper Snider's talk on Tuesday. Unfourtunately I was out sick on Tuesday, so I cannot speak too much on the guest speaker. However, the discusssion the class had about Open Source and it's relation with the world was both enlightening and exciting.

### Role of Open Source on Communities

It was fun to hear the varying perspectives and take aways each of my classmates had based on the videos we had been asked to watch. It was also exciting to hear people bring up personal experiences that were related to the topics discussed in the videos. 

One fellow student brought up how they could empathize with the idea of trying to introduce technologies to communities that lack/need them to educate their youths, as they too grew up in a similar environment and were unable to pursue computer science until they started attending university. 

Another interesting topic discussed was whether or not the current efforts and uses of open source for education of children was either misguided or misleading. The argument could be made that certain resources out might be entertaining or exciting at face value, but in the end don't propperly reflect the field itself to these children. An example for this was the Open Source farming program intended to use technology to get a new generation excited about farming. The way I see it is that there is nothing wrong with lowering the barriar of entry to make a certain topic or field more accessible for young children. By doing so, more people will be interested in the topic than without these methods. While some may find these tactics misleading, I find them harmless and actually beneficial as opposed to not providing anything at all. 

The concern with information and data privacy was another topic discussed durring class.