---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Midterm Reflections and Continued Project Work"
---

<!--more-->




This week, we teh class took our Midterm Reflection, as well as continued progress on my groups Open Source Group project.
# Midterm Reflections
Depite this being our classes version of a midterm, it was surprisingly fun and relaxing to thoroughly reflect on all the work we have done throughout the semester. It essentially felt like I was summing up all the blog posts I had made so far, which was fun! It made me glad that I had decided to take this class and I am looking forward to what else this semester holds.

# Project

For the open source project, our group had both held an out-of class meeting on Wednesday morning and durring class on Thursday. On Wednesday Philip and I ensured that all our working environments were up and running as well as narrowed down a hand full of potential issues our group could work on possibly contribute to. We also settled on simply mirroring a mirror of Blender's repo hosted on GitHub so that Joanna could track our progress throughout the semester. Stephanie was unable to make it to this meeting, so we caught her up on our progress in class. 

On Thursday, we met with the other Blender group to coordinate our progress and see if either group needed help. Afterwards, Stephanie, Philip, and I went through the potential Blender Issues we could potentially start with as a "First Issue" for this project. We decided to contribute to an issue concerning Geometry Nodes, which seemed straight forward enough for our group to handle. We also updated Joanna on our groups progress with our project.
