---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Tom Callaway and Starting Group Projects"
---

<!--more-->




This week, we began the process for planning out our larger open source projects. We also had the pleasure of having Tom Callaway present and speak to the class about his experience with open source.

# Project

For the open source project, the class was divided up into groups based on our form submissions from before the break. I was placed in group 10 with Philip Park and Sephanie Fran! 

Durrign class we decided to narrow down on which open source project we wanted to contribute to. After much discussion, we had decided on Blender. We all had equal interest in the project and it was one of the more frequently maintained projects when compared to our other options/choices. 

Since then we have agreed to have our working environments set up before next class, as well as finding out how to share our progress with Joanna, since Blender uses their own type of version control as opposed to simply hosting on GitHub.

I managed to set up a working developer build of Blender, but it wast without some plight! Since blender is a 3D imaging software, it is a heavy duty program with large files and libraries required to run. Because of this, it took quite a while to install all the necessary files and libraries, along with compiling and building everything to ensure it was working. Thankfully this was just part of the set up process. Everything should move more smoothly now that I have everything installed and working ^^;


# Tom Callaway

Our class also had a guest speaker this week. We had the pleasure of hearing from Tom Callaway, a former RedHat developer and current AWS employee. He spoke to us about the role of open source in his professional career, involvement in open source projects including Fedora, RedHat, and AWS, and also gave advice to us up-and-coming open source software developers. He gave insight on mistakes many beginners make, as well as insight to the legal side of open source software development.
