---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Version Control and Jim Hall"
---

Git basics, a reflection on Jim Hall's talk, and an update on the Browser Extension activity.
<!--more-->

# Version Control

On Tuesday's class we had a lecture that focused on the basics of using Git and version control. While being very familiar with these systems, it was a nice refresher to have. We covered checkouts, version control, branches, cloning, forking, SSH keys, and more. It was a pretty straight forward class day. Just some basic git know-how stuff.

# Jim Hall Talk

On Thursday's class Professor Joanna had invited [Jim Hall]() to host a talk over Zoom about Open Source Software development and his experience with in Open Source Software development. 

The discussion started with Jim explaining how he first became interested in the field of computer science. He spoke about his old DOS computer that he used to teach himself how to learn computer programming in the early days. Its crazy to see how far technology has advanced since then.

Specifically durring the talk he shared with us his involvement with the Project [FreeDOS](https://www.freedos.org/), an Open Source DOS comppatible opearating system. One of the facinating things he had discussed was how despite how dated or archaic this operating system may seem, it is still widely used today! Some examples included hobbiests that need to use a DOS operating system to run old games and even companies that may need to run legacy software. Its facinating to see how even after over 20 years, DOS based operating systems are still valuable to this day. 

While I was already excited to hear what Jim had to share with our class, I was surprised with how engaging and passionate he was about the topic. His energy and knowlege about the topic was extremely enjoyable. Some interesting questions he had addressed include how he's seen open source evolve over the years, common challenges and pitfalls faced with open source development, and the best ways for new projects to gain an audience. Despite it having taken up the entire period, I feel like the discussion could have gone on even longer especially with all the questions our class had for him. Great choice, Joanna!

# Browser Extension Activity

As a minor continuation of last weeks activity, I also continued to work on the group browser extension project. Our groups initiall pitch was to created a plug-in that manipulated [YouTube](youtube.com) in some way. Our original idea was to return the dislike count to YouTube videos, since we had hear that this data was simply commented out of the html and would have been simple to reintegrate with a basic javascript plugin. 

Unfortunately it turns out that recently YouTube had completely removed that data from the api so our original concept was a bust. However, I came up with a different angle for the project! Instead I proposed to have the plug-in hide the suggested videos tab on the website as a way to make YouTube less distracting. Give the plug-in the whole productivity angle and what-not. My group members agreed this was a great idea so I went ahead and implemented it into the plug-in! So far its working great with the bear minimum functionalities, but I want to see if I can incorporate more features before the deadline on Tuesday.