---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Browser Extensions!"
---

A full reflection on the Browser Extension Activity.
<!--more-->


# Browser Extension Activity

### Development

This week my group finished up and presented our browser extension [YouTubeEX](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/YouTubeEX). It was a fun experience developing the project and being able to show the entire class our work. 

As a continuation of last week's blog post, my team partner Philip and I continued to add on to what we had completed from last week. I had implemented all the starter files and coded the basic functionality of hiding the suggested videos side bar as well as the YouTube comments. Some of the starter files included the License, README.md, JSON, and Javascript files. 

Over the weekend Philip went ahead and implemented some additional features, as well as the basic Code of Conduct and Contributing Guide. 

On monday I had implemented the ability for the extension to hide endscreen suggested videos, a feature both Philip and I had been struggling to implement up until this point. I later also went ahead and finalized the README.md amongst other finishing touches before class on Tuesday.

### What I learned

After completing this project, its safe to say I had learned a lot! For starters, I learned how to develop a browser extension for Firefox! I have previous experience with add-on development for other browsers like chrome, so it was fun to learn and see the slight differences present with Firefox.

Another thing I learned, which is probably most valuable for this class, is what specificaly goes into developing and contributing to an open source project!

I have worked on coding projects before, but none of which had been specifically open source. I had never had to create a Code of Conduct, or a Contributing page. Most of the projects I had developed in the past were largely independent. After having gone over the importance of all these aspects in class, it was fun to utilize this knowledge first hand in a safe low stakes project.

I also learned about class and element manipulation with Javascript, as well as the innerworkings of YouTube's specific form of styling for their website. YouTube's styling is drastically more complex than most websites, so it was interesting to learn how the styling specifically worked inorder to manipulate the sites layout in a way we wanted to. 

### Other Teams Projects

Aside from working on our own project, one of my favorite parts of this assignment was getting the chance to see everyone else's presentations. The other groups projects ranged from more advanced versions of the tutorial assignments we did last week to brand new and intuitive ideas. Regardless, everyone's projects came out great. 

One thing I noticed was how many of the projects revolved around being "productivity" apps, but employed in different ways. This raged from [Study Timer](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/study-timer)'s browser timer, [Focusify](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/Focusify)'s add-on that removed certain features on Instagram. They were all great ideas, and part of me feels that they all could be combined into one giant productivity app! That would be a fun extra credit assignment!

These productivty apps also got me thinking, "what would it be like to make a 'destructive' add-on?" Essentially one that does the opposite of help the user focus and is just deliberately obnoxious for the sake of it. [Slap-A-Fetti](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/slap-a-fetti) was one of the only groups that took this angle and I thought it was really interesting. Developing an joke add-on like this could be a fun and interesting challenge... 